[docs] improve: Theming API (#1788)
wix-incubator/rich-content: docs/docs/ricos/Theming.mdx

sidebar_label: Theming
---

import { RicosEditor } from 'ricos-editor';
import { pluginHashtag } from 'wix-rich-content-plugin-hashtag';
import { pluginLink } from 'wix-rich-content-plugin-link';
import { createContent } from 'ricos-content';
import { RicosEditorWithMobile } from '../../infra/editor/components/RicosEditorWithMobile.tsx';
import 'ricos-editor/dist/styles.min.css';
import 'wix-rich-content-plugin-hashtag/dist/styles.min.css';
import customTypography from '../../infra/editor/content/customTypography.json';

Ricos is a stylable component, which means you can apply colors scheme & font properties to your Ricos UI.

The theming API provides the ability to customize the style of your plugins, toolbars, and the content itself - with simplicity & consistency.

## Coloring

Ricos' coloring mechanism is manifested in almost every element that is displayed.

The structure is based on 3 color properties (aka `Palette`):

- Text Color
- Action Color
- Background Color

You are able to define these colors in the `palette` property. Make sure to check out our [Theme Playground](http://rich-content-storybook-master.surge.sh/?path=/story/ricos--ricos-theme)!

> You can also modify specific elements' colors (like text headers / links). See [Custom Styles](./Theming#custom-styles) API below.

Author: To improve consistency I removed the "Fonts" title as it is not a prop of its own. Since customStyles is a different prop, it feels right to keep this redirection here, as one might want to figure out how to change headers colors, and turn first to the "Coloring" section.

### Palette

```jsx
const palette = {
  bgColor: '#0E092B',
  textColor: '#FFFFFF',
  actionColor: '#D6FF00',
};
// ...
<RicosEditor theme={{ palette }} plugins={[pluginHashtag()]} />;
```

<div className="card" style={{ backgroundColor: '#0E092B' }}>
  <RicosEditorWithMobile
    content={createContent('This is a #hashtag, see it has a unique color.')}
    placeholder={'Type here!'}
    theme={{
      palette: { bgColor: '#0E092B', textColor: '#FFFFFF', actionColor: '#D6FF00' },
      parentClass: 'card',
    }}
    plugins={[pluginHashtag()]}
  />
</div>

----

#### Palette Presets (WIP)

Pick a palette preset by its name. Currently supports 'darkTheme' only.

```jsx
<RicosEditor theme={{ palette: 'darkTheme' }} />
```
----

#### `WixPalette`

A Palette given & defined by Wix ("SiteColors").

```jsx
<RicosEditor theme={{ palette: wixPalette }} />

> ```

Author: done

```jsx
<RicosEditor theme={{ palette: 'darkTheme' }} />
```
----

#### `WixPalette`

A Palette given & defined by Wix.
A Palette given & defined by Wix ("SiteColors").

```jsx
<RicosEditor theme={{ palette: wixPalette }} />
```

### `parentClass`

A parent css className that wraps a ricos instance.
With this defined, dynamic styles will be wrapped by `parentClass` for CSS specifity.

You'll have to specify _parentClass_ if you plan to apply different palettes for multiple Ricos instances living next to each other.

Otherwise, you can ignore this field.

```jsx
<div className='class1'>
  <RicosEditor theme={{ parentClass: 'class1', palette: lightPalette }} />
</div>
<div className='class2'>
  <RicosEditor theme={{ parentClass: 'class2', palette: darkPalette }} />
</div>
```

### `typography`

Provide typography definitions into Ricos Instance.

| Name          | Type                        | Short Description                             |
| ------------- | --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| fontFamily?   | CSSProperties['fontFamily'] | Font Family for Ricos                         |

> | wixTypography | WixTypography               | Ineffective atm (WIP). WixSiteObject of Fonts |

Author: We remove `wixTypography` from docs as it is an internal wix-ricos object type

##### `fontFamily` - affects every textual element, including body text, menus & modals.
---

```jsx
const typography = { fontFamily: 'Arial' };
// ...
<RicosEditor theme={{ typography }} />;

> ```

Author: We are removing the support for this one, therefore the removal

> const customStyles: RicosCustomTheme = {

Author: `RicosCustomStyles` is now the new guy in town

        fontSize: '20px',
        color: 'purple',
        textDecoration: 'none',
      },
      quote: {
        lineHeight: '24px',
        fontWeight: 'bold',
        color: 'brown',
      },
    }}}
  />
</div>
<div className="card card4" style={{ backgroundColor: '#0E092B' }}>
  <RicosEditorWithMobile
    content={customTypography}
    placeholder={'Type here!'}
    theme={{ parentClass: 'card4' }}
  />
</div>

> #### RicosCustomTheme

Reviewer: Both `RicosCustomTheme` and `CustomTextualStyle` tables are very repetitive and should be removed. Try to think of a different table-less representation.
For example, simply mention the props accepted in `RicosCustomTheme` without describing each and every one. Also `CSSProperties['fontSize']` is pure typescript code and not documentation, could also here mention the supported css properties without explaining their types (it's obvious in this case)

sidebar_label: Theming
---

import { RicosEditor } from 'ricos-editor';
import { pluginHashtag } from 'wix-rich-content-plugin-hashtag';
import { pluginLink } from 'wix-rich-content-plugin-link';
import { createContent } from 'ricos-content';
import { RicosEditorWithMobile } from '../../infra/editor/components/RicosEditorWithMobile';
import 'ricos-editor/dist/styles.min.css';
import 'wix-rich-content-plugin-hashtag/dist/styles.min.css';
import customTypography from '../../infra/editor/content/customTypography.json';

Ricos is a stylable component, which means you can apply colors scheme & font properties to your Ricos UI.

The theming API provides the ability to simply & consistently customize the style of your plugins, toolbars, and content.

theme?: {
  palette?: PaletteColors | PalettePreset;
  customStyles?: RicosCustomStyles;
  parentClass?: string;

> }

Author: oops

- Background Color

Check this [Theme Playground](http://rich-content-storybook-master.surge.sh/?path=/story/ricos--ricos-theme) to understand the influence of each color on the plugins, toolbars and modals.

You can also modify specific elements' colors (like text headers / links). See [Custom Styles](./Theming#custom-styles) API below.

### Palette

```jsx
const palette = {
  bgColor: '#0E092B',
  textColor: '#FFFFFF',
  actionColor: '#D6FF00',
};
// ...
<RicosEditor theme={{ palette }} plugins={[pluginHashtag()]} />;
```

<div className="card" style={{ backgroundColor: '#0E092B' }}>
  <RicosEditorWithMobile
    content={createContent('This is a #hashtag, see it has a unique color.')}
    placeholder={'Type here!'}
    theme={{
      palette: { bgColor: '#0E092B', textColor: '#FFFFFF', actionColor: '#D6FF00' },
      parentClass: 'card',
    }}
    plugins={[pluginHashtag()]}
  />
</div>

#### Palette Presets

Pick a palette preset by its name. Currently supports 'darkTheme' only.

```jsx
<RicosEditor theme={{ palette: 'darkTheme' }} />
```

## Custom Styles

As of consumers requests, you're able to customize several textual elements of Ricos in terms of font and color.

> By default, the `font-family` of the textual content within Ricos is inherited from outside (i.e container / page styling), while other typography properties like `font-size` were set by us.
> which you can now customize via the Custom Styles API below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `font-family` of textual content within Ricos is inherited from its wrapping component, while other typography properties like `font-size` are defined within Ricos.
Overriding these properties is done by setting the `customStyles`.
```

| lineHeight?     | CSSProperties['lineHeight']     | CSS Property Value |
| minHeight?      | CSSProperties['minHeight']      | CSS Property Value |
| color?          | CSSProperties['color']          | CSS Property Value |

----

> ## parentClass (optional)

Reviewer: This is an explanation, not the API so no need to mention it's optional. Also, the titles are inconsistent, in this case you use the prop name `parentClass`, and in other cases you use a title name like Custom Styles. Choose one unified format
